CONTRACT 1: BankAccount.sol (Financial Logic)
This contract simulates a basic bank account, allowing users to hold and transfer Ether.

BankAccount.sol Explanation (Text Copy Format)

This contract simulates a simple bank account on the Ethereum blockchain, allowing users to deposit and withdraw Ether.

uint public balance;

Declares a public state variable named balance of type unsigned integer.

This stores the total Ether held by the contract.

Because it is marked public, Solidity automatically creates a getter function balance().

function deposit() public payable

This function allows users to deposit Ether into the contract.

The keyword payable is necessary because only payable functions can receive Ether.

When the function is called, the amount of Ether sent (msg.value) is added to balance.

function withdraw(uint amount) public

This function allows the user to withdraw Ether from the contract.

require(balance >= amount, "Insufficient balance");

This checks that the contract has enough balance.

If not, the transaction is reverted.

balance -= amount;

Updates the stored balance after withdrawal.

payable(msg.sender).transfer(amount);

Sends the withdrawn Ether back to the user.

msg.sender is converted to a payable address before transferring.

function getBalance() public view returns (uint)

This function returns the current balance.

view indicates that the function only reads the state and does not modify it.

2) StudentData.sol Explanation (Text Copy Format)

This contract shows how to use structs and arrays to store student records.

struct Student { uint id; string name; uint age; }

Defines a custom data type to store student information.

This struct groups id, name, and age together.

Student[] public students;

Declares a dynamic array of Student data type.

Marked public, so Solidity automatically provides a getter to access individual students.

function addStudent(uint _id, string memory _name, uint _age) public

Adds a new student record to the array.

_name is stored in memory because it is passed temporarily during function execution.

Uses students.push(Student(_id, _name, _age)); to add the student to the array.

function getStudent(uint index) public view returns (uint, string memory, uint)

Returns the student details stored at a given array index.

Uses view because it only reads the stored data.

fallback() external payable {}

Runs when a call is made to a non-existing function.

Marked payable so the contract can accept Ether sent with unexpected data.

receive() external payable {}

Automatically executed when the contract receives Ether without any function call.

Preferred for simple Ether transfers.

Viva Questions and Answers

1. What is msg.value?
msg.value stores the amount of Ether (in Wei) sent with the current transaction.

2. Why is the deposit function marked payable?
Without the payable keyword, the function cannot receive Ether.

3. What is the purpose of require in withdraw()?
It ensures the contract has enough balance before allowing withdrawal. If false, the transaction reverts.

4. Why do we use payable(msg.sender).transfer(amount)?
Addresses are non-payable by default. We must convert to payable before sending Ether.

5. What is the advantage of using a struct in StudentData.sol?
A struct groups related data together so the contract is more organized and easier to manage.

6. What is the difference between receive() and fallback()?

receive(): Called when Ether is sent without data.

fallback(): Called when a non-existing function is invoked or Ether is sent with data.

7. Why is memory used for string parameters?
string data is dynamically sized, so memory stores it temporarily and reduces storage cost.

-----

VIVA Q&A: BankAccount.sol

Q1. What does this smart contract do?
This contract behaves like a simple bank account. It allows users to deposit Ether, withdraw Ether, and check the balance stored in the contract.

Q2. Why do we use payable in the deposit function?
payable allows the function to receive Ether. Without payable, the function cannot accept any cryptocurrency transfer.

Q3. What is msg.value?
msg.value stores the amount of Ether (in Wei) that is sent with a transaction.

Q4. What is msg.sender?
msg.sender is the address of the account (or contract) that is calling the function.

Q5. Why do we use require(balance >= amount) in withdraw()?
To ensure that the contract has enough balance to withdraw. If the condition fails, the transaction is reverted.

Q6. Why is payable(msg.sender) used before .transfer()?
Because addresses are not payable by default. We must convert the caller’s address to a payable type before sending Ether.

Q7. What does the function getBalance() do?
It is a view function that returns the current value of the contract balance without modifying the blockchain state.

Q8. What happens if someone sends Ether directly without calling a function?
If implemented, the receive() or fallback() function will handle it. Otherwise, the transaction will fail.

VIVA Q&A: StudentData.sol

Q1. What is a struct?
A struct is a custom data type that allows grouping of multiple related variables under one name.

Q2. What does the students array store?
It stores multiple Student records. Each record contains ID, name, and age of a student.

Q3. Why is students declared as public?
So that Solidity automatically creates a getter function to access student data.

Q4. What does memory mean in the function parameters?
memory indicates that the variable is stored temporarily during function execution, not permanently on the blockchain.

Q5. How do we add a student in the contract?
By calling addStudent(id, name, age) which pushes a new Student struct into the students array.

Q6. What does the function getStudent() return?
It returns the details (id, name, age) of the student stored at a specific index in the array.

Q7. What is the difference between fallback() and receive()?

Function	When it is Triggered	Purpose
receive()	Ether sent with no data	Simple Ether transfer
fallback()	Unknown function call / Ether with data	Backup handler

Q8. Why does Solidity need structs and arrays?
To store structured and multiple records efficiently without using separate variables.

